---
title: "Does God Create Homosexuals?"
date: "2024-11-24T09:34:14"
draft: "false"
description: "The answer to this question is no.  The Vatican II sect denies the truth: that God doesn’t create anyone as a homosexual Antipope John Paul II, New Catechism, #2357: “Homosexuality… Its psychological genesis remains largely [...]"
tags: []
external_url: "https://vaticancatholic.com/god-create-homosexuals/"
locale: "en_US"
type: "article"
---

Source: [vaticancatholic.com](https://vaticancatholic.com/god-create-homosexuals/)

<h2>The Vatican II sect denies the truth: that <span style="text-decoration: underline;">God doesn’t create anyone as a homosexual</h2>

<blockquote><spanstyle="font-size: 14pt;">Antipope John Paul II, New Catechism, #2357: “Homosexuality… <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Its psychological genesis remains largely unexplained.”</blockquote>

A commonly held false idea in our day is that God creates some people homosexual (or that homosexuality is a result of some sort of “psychological” problem).  In fact, it is apparent from our contacts with people that most of those who consider themselves “traditional Catholics” believe that there is nothing wrong with the homosexual orientation, but only in homosexual acts.  <strong>The truth is that God doesn’t create anyone with a homosexual orientation and that all those who are truly homosexuals (even those who are not engaging in homosexual acts) are homosexuals because of a demonic takeover and mortal sin</strong>.  Those who scoff at this statement are simply faithless liberals who don’t want the truth and have no concept of the supernatural world.
<blockquote>Romans 1- “Because that, when they knew God, they have not glorified him as God, or given thanks; but became vain in their thoughts, and their foolish heart was darkened... <strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;">who changed the truth of God into a lie; and worshipped and served the creature rather than the Creator</strong>, who is blessed for ever. Amen. <strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;">For this cause God delivered them up to shameful affections. For their women have changed the natural use into that use which is <span style="text-decoration: underline;">against nature. And, in like manner, the men also, leaving the natural use of the women, have burned in their lusts one towards another, men with men working that which is filthy, and receiving in themselves the recompense which was due to their error</strong>... they who do such things, are worthy of death; and not only they that do them, but they also that consent to them that do them.”</blockquote>
Romans 1 clearly teaches that because these persons “<em>worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator</em>” and “<em>changed the truth of God into a lie</em>” God gave them up to homosexuality, which is described as a SHAMEFUL AFFECTION.  Further, Romans 1 clearly teaches that homosexuality is “<em>against nature</em>,” which means that <strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;">this orientation is foreign to man’s nature</strong>, that is, it is NOT INSTILLED BY GOD.

Men and women are given over to homosexuality for inundating themselves with sins of impurity – and thereby worshipping the flesh rather than God – and for this they get possessed by the demon of lust, which takes them over and corrupts their entire orientation.  (And they can be cured of this.)  People also become homosexuals by engaging in idolatry or by harboring a perverse fascination with human beings over God – thereby worshipping the creature rather than the Creator.  The fact that all homosexuals are spiritually possessed by a demonic spirit is corroborated by the fact that most homosexual males can be identified by their effeminate external mannerisms.  What explains this?  It’s obviously the demon’s presence in the person manifesting itself externally – the external, unnatural mannerisms revealing the internal corruption of the soul.
<blockquote>Isaias 3:9 – "<strong><em><span style="text-decoration: underline;">The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom</em></strong>, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have rewarded evil unto themselves."</blockquote>
Notice that the prophet Isaias, referring to homosexuals, says that “<em>they have <span style="text-decoration: underline;">rewarded evil unto themselves</em>.”  This is strikingly similar to Romans 1 above, where <a href="https://www.mostholyfamilymonastery.com/">St. Paul</a> says that homosexuals have <em>received “in themselves the <span style="text-decoration: underline;">recompense [reward] which was due to their error</em>.” The truth that all homosexuals are spiritually possessed by a demonic spirit is also corroborated by the fact that society has recently seen an incredible increase in the number of people who consider themselves homosexuals.  This is easily explained by the fact that, with the advent and explosion of the internet and other technological means which make access to pornography and impurity easy, millions more people are committing sins of impurity, millions more people are becoming possessed, and countless more are becoming homosexuals. (<em>And, of course, not all who commit mortal sins of impurity become homosexuals, so those who somehow think they are okay because they are not homosexuals, even though they are committing sins of impurity, are sorely deceived and are also on the road to Hell and in bondage to the Devil.</em>)

But today all we hear from “Catholics” and almost all “traditional Catholics” is that homosexual acts are wrong, but that the homosexual orientation is okay – i.e., it is not their fault that they are homosexual.  This is a falsehood which advances the cause of the Devil and the homosexual agenda.  It also doesn’t help the homosexuals themselves.  The idea that there is nothing wrong with the homosexual orientation (which contradicts Romans 1) is responsible for the fact that: 1) Novus Ordo seminaries are spilling over with homosexuals; 2) Homosexuals have gained such an ascendancy in society that their lifestyles and “homosexual persons” are accepted on mainstream television; 3) Gay “marriage” has become legal in certain places.  If the truth that all homosexuals are spiritually possessed – and that homosexuality is a result of grave sin – had not been compromised by those who profess to be “Catholics,” none of this would have happened.  <em>It should also be noted that people who become homosexuals at a very young age are simply spiritually possessed by a demonic spirit early on in life</em>.

Homosexuality is condemned throughout the Bible.  Sodomy is one of the sins that cries to heaven for vengeance. God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah for this very sin.
<blockquote>Jude 1:7 -“<strong>As Sodom and Gomorrah, and the neighboring cities, in like manner, having given themselves to fornication, and <span style="text-decoration: underline;">going after strange flesh</strong>, were made an example, <strong>suffering the punishment of eternal fire</strong>.”

Leviticus 18:22, "Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: <strong>it is abomination</strong>."

Leviticus 20:13, "<strong>If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination</strong>: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them."

Deuteronomy 23:17, "There shall be no whore of the daughters of Israel, <strong>nor</strong><strong> a sodomite of the sons of Israel</strong>."

1 Kings 14:24, "And there were also <strong>sodomites in the land: and they did according to all the abominations of the nations</strong> which the LORD cast out before the children of Israel."

1 Kings 15:11-12, "And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the LORD, as did David his father. And <strong>he took away the sodomites out of the land</strong>, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made."</blockquote>

So when we see the acceptance and promotion of homosexuality rampant among the <a title="Vatican II “Catholic” Church Exposed" href="https://vaticancatholic.com/vatican-ii-exposed/">Vatican II sect members,</a> know that they are accepting and promoting an abomination.  When we see them tolerating and even celebrating the homosexual <span style="text-decoration: underline;">orientation in persons not practicing homosexual acts, know that they are tolerating and celebrating demonic takeover of a soul.</span>

<blockquote>Vatican “Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith” on Homosexual Unions: “Sacred Scripture condemns homosexual acts “as a serious depravity... (cf. Rom 1:24-27; 1 Cor 6:10; 1 Tim 1:10). <strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;">This judgment of Scripture does not of course permit us to conclude that all those who suffer from this anomaly are personally responsible for it</strong>, but it does attest to the fact that homosexual <span style="text-decoration: underline;">acts are intrinsically disordered”.  This same moral judgment is found in many Christian writers of the first centuries and is unanimously accepted by Catholic Tradition.” (<em>Considerations regarding proposals to give legal recognition to unions between homosexual persons</em>, approved by John Paul II March 28, 2003)</blockquote>

Here we see an official Vatican document asserting that homosexual acts are wrong, but that the homosexual orientation is <span style="text-decoration: underline;">not necessarily a result of grave sin.  This is evil, uncharitable and false.  This toleration of the homosexual orientation is the reason why homosexuals are admitted into Novus Ordo (Vatican II) seminaries.  It is the reason why we ultimately read the following incredible things about the state of the Novus Ordo Seminaries:

<blockquote>“According to former [Novus Ordo] seminarians and recently ordained priests, <strong>this ‘gay subculture’ is so prominent at certain seminaries that these institutions have earned nicknames such as Notre Flame (for Notre Dame Seminary in New Orleans) and Theological Closet (for Theological College at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C.).  St. Mary’s Seminary in Baltimore has earned the nickname ‘Pink Palace.’</strong>

“Father Andrew Walter, ordained [sic] for the Diocese of Bridgeport, Connecticut, in 2000, spent several semesters at the Baltimore school as a seminarian for the Diocese of Paterson, New Jersey.  <strong>The problem was so bad when he was there, he explained, that ‘some of the students and faculty used to get dressed up in leather to go to ‘the block,’</strong> Baltimore’s equivalent to 42nd Street in Manhattan.’  Seminarians, sometimes accompanied by faculty members, would do this regularly, Walter explained.  ‘They would meet in the foyer, and then head for the gay bars.” (Michael Rose, <em>Goodbye, Good Men</em>, Washington, D.C., Regnery Publishing, pp. 56-57)
“Trigilio lamented, hinting at the campy subculture that permeated the seminary atmosphere.  ‘<strong>We used to say, if you wore a cassock you were a reactionary ‘daughter of Trent.’  If you wore women’s underwear, they’d make you seminarian of the year.  We had a few guys who sometimes wore women’s clothing, lingerie, makeup, etc., and some who were as effeminate as could be… The campy ones at MIS [Mary Immaculate Seminary, Northampton, P.A.] would call each other by female names</strong>…” (Michael Rose, <em>Goodbye, Good Men</em>, Washington, D.C., Regnery Publishing, p. 171)</blockquote>
Our other articles give more details on the <span style="text-decoration: underline;">absolutely unbelievable state of the seminaries of the Vatican II/Novus Ordo sect.
<blockquote>1 Corinthians 6:9-11, "Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? <strong>Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate</strong>, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, <strong>shall inherit the kingdom of God</strong>. And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God."</blockquote>
By telling homosexuals the truth that their perverse orientation is not natural, we do them a great charity and show a true love for their souls.  We give them the knowledge and the means to cure themselves.  And they don’t need an exorcism to cure themselves.  If a homosexual ceases to commit all mortal sins and changes his or her life; if he or she holds the fullness of the Catholic Faith without compromise, which includes a profession of faith; if he or she makes a sincere sacramental confession of all mortal sins to a validly ordained priest; if he or she has a strong prayer life and a true devotion to the Mother of God and the holy Rosary, then he or she will be delivered from homosexuality without any doubt.  Our Lord tells us that: “<em>And you shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free</em>.” (John 8:32)  By knowing the truth and by employing the means to deliver themselves, homosexuals can and will be delivered from their perverse orientation.

Regarding the Holy Rosary, the real Sister Lucia told Father Fuentes in a famous 1957 interview:
