---
title: "Chapter 5"
date: 2024-12-24T12:38:01+0000
draft: false
tags: []
toc: true
---

## The grace and spirituality of work

643 [Text:] The brothers to whom the Lord has given the grace of working shall work faithfully, that is with respect to their neighbour and the work itself, and devotedly that is with respect to God, as Saint Bonaventure says: since every good intention concerning work should be referred to God.

Scrupulous Brother – What is the aim of this chapter?

Mature Brother – the Supreme Pontiffs declared that it is not to be understood simply with respect to physical effort since the exhaustion which Saint Francis wishes to be avoided is laziness which manifests itself in many ways within the Order, namely when studying, reading, teaching, preaching, hearing confessions, in works of charity to both the healthy and the sick and the like. [106]

Those who are engaged in these works, especially because of obedience or charity, fulfil the Rule. Reference to those who are not occupied in these things is contained in chapter 5 of Exiit which begins with Continetur does not include contemplatives who should not be obstructed from doing such good activities.

644 Text; so that avoiding idleness, the enemy of the soul, they do not extinguish the Spirit of holy prayer and devotion to which all temporal things must contribute

Scrupulous Brother – How does physical exercise extinguish the Spirit of prayer?

Mature Brother – The Four Masters say that the spirit of prayer is extinguished when there is such preoccupation with manual work that the spirit of prayer laid down by the Rule is obstructed. Worldly minded people wish to defend their laziness by this statement in the Rule. When the superiors command them to do something, they say that it will extinguish the spirit of prayer. This is what they claim.

Note that laziness is to be avoided lest it extinguish the spirit. Thus a brother should not neglect required prayer for physical activities, except for obedience, but he should first seek the kingdom of God,
and thus perform the duties of Mary but not lose the grace of Magdalene.
Saint Francis, who loathed laziness and who wanted the brothers to be occupied in suitable activity after they had eaten and to speak of good things, knew this well. […]

