---
date: 2024-12-24T13:11:17+0000
draft: false
tags: []
title: Epilogue
---



Here end the Dialogue of Salvation, which was written a second time by the same person who wrote the first, with many necessary additions, especially regarding things which are essential to the Rule and intention of Saint Francis concerning the most important point. This happened because [129r] in the time that elapsed between when the first Dialogue was written
many changes took place over time in our lifestyle. This forced a change of opinion concerning many things that had been written in the first Dialogue which are better explained in this one with greater security and many points that are most necessary for the observance of the Rule have been added. It has also been done because the other one seriously blamed and criticised those who wanted reform, mainly on the grounds of separation by claiming that this was not necessary, especially in the case of the Capuchins, having been convinced that this would not last considering the example of many others who had done the same thing. Having seen that although matters were confused that the Lord nevertheless provided assistance as this venture was enlightened by God and recognising that this was truly the work of God and an authentic reform which was most necessary in these very imperfect days, I changed my mind and took up the habit and life of the Capuchins sincerely thanking and praising the Lord for such a beautiful grace.

Much has been said in this Dialogue regarding recourse to spiritual friends and syndics and many other things which are not required in this blessed reform of the Capuchins, since with the grace of the Lord we live according to the purity and simplicity of the Rule. However, they have their place for common convenience and for others and in mentioning them many errors have been exposed and those who live a relaxed live have been shown to have no excuse.

All the declarations of the Supreme Pontiffs and the doctors of the Order regarding the Rule have been put together in this work so that everyone can know about them more easily. It has been written in the vernacular for the convenience [129v] of both the learned and the simple.

Therefore, my son, try to have it always with you and study it well and observe it with all your strength and do not linger in following me in putting on this habit,
as you have followed my teaching, since vere bonum est nos hic esse

where we may serve God with great calmness of soul and safe conscience, peace and charity.

Quicumque hanc Regulam secuti fuerint pax super illos et misericordia.

FINIS
