---
title: "The intention of Saint Francis regarding the interpretation of the Rule"
date: 2024-12-10T05:24:21+0000
draft: false
tags: []
---

513. Scrupulous Brother – What do you think was Saint Francis’ intention with respect to the interpretation of the Rule?

Mature Brother – Note well that Saint Francis said in his Testament that he wanted the Rule to be understood simply and observed in the same way. He says that the Lord revealed it to him. Although with good intentions, the Pope said that we were not bound to observe the Testament, we must still hold it in the highest respect and observe it where possible, as Alvarus says, since that is where our Father sets out his intentions. It is credible that he wrote the Testament and the Rule through the same divine inspiration at the end of his life when he was perfect in virtue. This is what Alvarus says. Whoever does not esteem the Testament and is not careful to observe it as far as possible shows little love for such a Father and little regard for his legacy and blessing. Therefore, at their General Chapter, the Capuchins decreed that the Testament be observed.

The Lord said the same thing when Brother Elias and other brothers were present who did not want to accept the Rule.

This is so because the whole observance of the Rule consists in knowing God and His beloved Son, in loving Him and carrying Him in our hearts and imitating His life. Indeed, the Rule says that we should observe the holy Gospel since the life of Christ is described perfectly in the Gospel, which the brother should keep before his eyes and be found to be obedient, poor, and chaste simply out of the love he has for God and sinners.

This Rule, then, imposes observing the Gospel, that is, placing our Lord Jesus Christ and His life before the mind’s eyes, striving to know and love Him, and always desiring His presence and imitating His life in perfect obedience, poverty, and chastity, as much as human frailty will allow. This is the real meaning of the words: The Rule and life of the Friars Minor is this: to observe the holy Gospel, etc. Whoever looks for any other meaning neither understands the Rule properly nor observes it.

514. Although many declarations have been written, the Rule has never been observed by those not gifted by God with special love for Christ, who have been invited and inflamed to love Him and imitate Him. As we have said, this is what observing the Rule means. Therefore, as the Gospel law is a law of love and grace and of the manifestation of the Son of God, who became man and died for sinners, thus this Rule is a Rule of love and contains within itself the Spirit of Christ and His grace. Whoever wishes to understand it must necessarily have the Spirit of Christ in him, which is nothing else but an ardent desire to know, love, imitate, embrace, and carry Him in our heart.

Since the Gospel, which is the law of love, cannot enter our heart except by means of love, because no act of love can be performed except out of love, as was evident in the Saints of the early Church and the martyrs, all of whom were gospel people because they observed the whole Gospel out of love so that they were afraid of neither torture nor death, so our Rule, being a Rule of love, cannot be really understood in our hearts except through love. Therefore, those who only look for the letter are motivated by fear alone, since they are afraid of punishment, confusion, or damnation in the next life and are inspired only sometimes by hope. These act like the Jews, who, since they only followed the letter of the law out of hope and fear, never reached a perfect understanding of the law. Those who understand the letter of the law are the same.

515. Therefore, the grace and Spirit of Christ suffice to understand and observe the Rule which He composed. To achieve this, it is required that we adopt the way of loving which the Lord Jesus Christ brought to us, a love which (once every vestige of divinity had been removed from Him) made Him so humble that it not only led to Him holding everything in contempt but even to a cruel and shameful death.

If we take on this kind of love as our Lord Jesus Christ did, we too will understand the Rule and observe it.

Therefore, while the soul is joined to Christ by love, it will always be fixed on the observance of the Rule. Furthermore, it will never be at peace or contented until it has reached the highest degree of perfect obedience, poverty, and chastity, and will think of nothing but perfecting these things completely (as far as possible) as the most kind Lord did Himself. Look at how He observed them and see how His true lover will strive to observe them simply.

Thus, I conclude, regarding this first doubt, saying that Saint Francis prohibited glosses on the Rule since he wanted Christ’s life to be its gloss, as he said: “Look to Christ and to me and do likewise.”

516. See below in chapters four and six for the second doubt.

Regarding the third doubt concerning relaxations, I say that this was partly the reason for my changing, which was such a surprise for you. You should understand that in these highly dangerous times this is very frightening because we observe that fervor, charity, and the love of God has grown cold in all states of life. If a person has to be vigilant in all states of life, how much more should they be attentive in our state of life to the perfection of the Rule, the obligation of solemn vows, the intention of our father Saint Francis when writing the Rule, and also to our being designated observants. So, with every endeavor, we should seek out a method and a path to remove all impediments to the observance of our profession, and to act otherwise would be to despise the Rule and the statutes which have been set down for the better observance of the Rule and consequently to despise our own salvation. Therefore, not only do those brothers commit mortal sins who despise serious matters, but also those who despise small things fall into more serious matters.


In this way, such people become lax and move away from the observance of the Rule. When they are careless over lesser matters, they will despise small and serious matters and fall. Thus, those wretched people fall with their eyes open and perish. Because of this, they show greater ingratitude for the divine gifts. The Almighty God has lifted them up to a sublime state through these gifts. Saint Paul had these people in mind when he wrote to the Hebrews: My dear faithful, how much more and heavier punishment will be meted out to the one who, by sinning, has trampled on the Son of God out of contempt.

The Lord complains about such as these in chapter 10 of Jeremiah: What is the meaning that my beloved hath wrought much wickedness in my house? Usually, such people become worse and incorrigible, as Augustine says: To Vincent the Donatist: Since the time when I began to serve Him, just as I have hardly found any men better than those who have done well in monasteries, so I have not found any men worse than monks who have fallen. This is what he says.

Indeed, the motivation of those who want to live against regular observance is evil and perverse, having no respect for regulations or statutes, not wishing to reform in any way. Thus, if they continue in this manner, they can only come to a damnable death since they not only break the solemn vows which they have promised but also (not out of ignorance but malice) deliberately refuse to accept other things necessary for their salvation. They cannot be saved unless they live according to the observance of the Rule, which they have promised and knowingly break.

517. From this, we can understand the vision that Saint Francis saw: It seemed to him that he had very delicate crumbs of bread in his hand which he had to give to the brothers, but because they were so small, he thought that they would fall. He heard a voice that said: “Francis, form the crumbs into a host and give them to the brothers.” When he did this, he observed that those who despised them or picked them up without devotion immediately became lepers. When he understood the vision, he heard the voice once again saying: “Francis, the crumbs are the words of the Gospel, the host is the Rule, and the leper represents evil.”

Once Jesus Christ appeared to Brother Leo, the companion of Saint Francis, complaining about three things concerning the brothers: “Firstly, they do not recognize My gifts. I bestow gifts upon them with such abundance, and they do not have to weary themselves with sowing or reaping, etc., and they live with such ease. However, they are ungrateful and lazy and murmur continually. Secondly, they provoke one another to anger. Thirdly, they do not pardon injuries or make peace.”

518. Blessed Francis also said to Brother Leo that the Lord had revealed to him how He had the greatest confidence in this Order and would pardon the world because of the merits of the Order. However, with the passage of time, the brothers departed from the path that had been shown to them and provoked the Lord’s anger. The Lord summoned the devils against the Order, and they placed such scandal between them and the world that the world almost lost faith in them.

He also said that the Lord had revealed to him that the evil brother would continue to be malicious, leave the Order, and become bewildered.

Blessed Francis saw our Lord Jesus Christ yet again with wounds that appeared to be bleeding, and He said to him: “Your brothers have done this to me through transgressions of the Rule that I gave to you.”

After his death, Blessed Francis appeared with wings and claws like an eagle, saying that the wings were to help good brothers and to carry their souls into heaven, and the claws were to punish the bad and reprobate brothers. We read in the Book of Conformities under Franciscus fecundator, in vita fratris Leonis.

519. During the time of the Chapter, at which there were five thousand brothers, it was revealed to Saint Francis how eighteen thousand demons took counsel against his Order, saying: “We cannot overcome these good brothers because God protects them because of their purity and holiness. Rather, let us wait until weak young men in disguise from the nobility are received into the Order or those who have poor health or who are not fervent, and then on the occasion when these feel the need to be greatly respected, we shall attack the brotherhood and induce sensuality and relaxations.”

Et utinam (ait Pisanus) hoc consilium non esset impletum! (I wish that (the Pisan says) this advice had not yet been fulfilled!)

Saint Francis used to say that the Lord had revealed to him that three generations of people would ruin the purity and simplicity of the Order as much as they could: people of noble birth, young people, and scholars.

Brother Angelo used to say that Saint Francis had a low opinion of his brothers because they lacked the spirit of prayer and devotion, which is the foundation of the spiritual edifice. They do not speak of God but of the world, they construct immoderate buildings which displease God, and they lack charity. Look in the Book of Conformities under the heading Francis the legislator, where you will find harsh words spoken about many evil brothers.

520. I have said these things because you asked me whether the usual way of life within the “family” is safe in modern times, and because you said that the reason for your doubting was the general blatant relaxations. Therefore, I say to you that what caused you to be doubtful and fearful motivated (even constrained) me to take action, for from time to time relaxations occurred, all of which had been foreseen by Saint Francis when he wrote in the Rule that when the brothers in any place came to realize that they could not observe the Rule spiritually, they should have recourse to the Ministers (in Chapter Ten). With the help of God, the good brothers have always got together and helped one another. It became necessary to do the same at present.

As I promised you, I shall explain my mind regarding the fourth doubt, but note:

521. With regard to the fourth doubt concerning the factions. Although our Rule is perfect and inspired by the Holy Spirit, there have always been a diversity of factions within the Order and many novelties and many good and bad brothers. This shows the human propensity towards evil but also the envy of the devils, who, seeing the fruit that the Church derives from the Order, asked God to allow them to destroy it. Although such permission was not given, nevertheless they have always tried to cause it the utmost disturbance and obstruction. Look in the book called Memoriale Ordinis, where you will find that the Order began to fluctuate and take up novelties from the very beginning.

The most kind Lord, having been moved by the prayers of Saint Francis, has never abandoned this Order but has always sent good brothers who were really zealous for the Rule and perfect observance. He promised this to Saint Francis when the Saint was disturbed by scandals among the brothers, saying to him: “Why are you disturbed by the scandals among the brothers? I planted this Order and I will preserve it, and there will always be brothers who are truly observant, and I will have them born.” Look in the Conformities, fruit IX. The Lord concluded by saying: “If there were only three observant brothers in the Order, I would not abandon them, and it will always be My Order.”

522. As far as this matter is concerned, I say that the reason for so many divisions was that from time to time there were many good and holy brothers who were really zealous and observers of the Rule. When they saw transgressions and relaxations, they sought to remedy them. Within the community (with great difficulty, however, because of the many impediments and opposition), there were those who observed the Rule as best they could. Others, in order to be more expedient and wishing to assist one another, sought comfort, demanding special positions within the community and outside it, either at court or in some way or other, so that at different times and in various Provinces, many groups were formed, and reforms begun. Although these were well-intentioned, nonetheless, they failed bit by bit, and nothing was achieved concerning these things, including what was achieved at the time of Saint Bernadine and his companions.


